# Motivation

**Existing efforts**. The Canadian Credential Network team has been meeting on a weekly basis to develop a network governance since June of 2020.  Their first deliverable will be a governance framework for a network.  They are currently reviewing the DIACC’s Pan Canadian Trust Framework (PCTF) and governance documents from the Sovrin and Bedrock SSI networks.  The CanaCred team is in touch with the management of Sovrin, Bedrock and IDunion (EU regional SSI network initiative funded by German government) for knowledge transfer and technical support.  Currently the Trust over IP Foundation (ToIP) Utility Foundry Working Group is the informal place for all of the network initiatives to meet.  Several members of the Canadian Credential Network belong to the ToIP as well as the DIACC.  CanaCred is also in touch with groups in Brazil, Mexico and Finland that are interested in starting their own initiatives.

**Background**. Self-sovereign identity is a technology designed to put users in control of their own data.  It flips the paradigm of centralized identity.  Instead of having hundreds of organizations with copies of a person’s data, each person holds their own data and has relationships with organizations where each person has agency over what data they release to the organizations.  To make this work, you need three things.  1. A mobile application that acts as a wallet for the individuals.  2. Enterprise services for organizations to issue and verify credentials.  3. A blockchain network to act as the source of verifiable cryptographical information to identify the public organizations.  The Hyperledger Foundation has several projects that represent the technology of all of these things.  The Hyperledger Indy and Aries projects provide the technology to enable SSI.  The provinces of BC, Alberta and Ontario have already worked on SSI initiatives and the Joint Councils has stated their commitment in adopting this at the provincial and federal levels of government in Canada.  Canada is currently a leader in deploying these technologies and in contributing the standards.  Where we fall behind is in not having our own network or mobile wallet application.

**Need Canadian**. A Canadian network will support a made-in-Canada governance framework.  It will conform to the Pan Canadian Trust Framework (PCTF), it will have agreements vetted by Canadian lawyers for Canadian privacy laws, and it will be governed by representatives of Canadian business, government, associations and academia.  CanaCred can provide the safest and most responsive  environment for online identity for Canadians.  CanaCred is developing an open-source mobile wallet application that can be used for free by Canadian citizens to hold their identity information.  This wallet will be available in French and English and will support the PCTF and Canadian privacy laws.  There are currently US and EU wallets that are available, but they are not open-source, not all of them are multilingual and none have undertaken a review to see how they align with the PCTF and PIPEDA legislation.

**Should be group effort**. CanaCred is being designed to have governance from a variety of sources.  CanaCred is courting stewards from industry, finance, agriculture and service companies from the private sector as well as associations representing privacy, accessibility and oppressed groups - they will operate under a non-oppressive framework.  CanaCred would also like participation from representatives of all levels of government in Canada, as well as academic institutions.  By having the system governed by such a diverse group and by having as much transparency as possible, Canadians will be able to trust that no single sector will be able to manipulate the system in their favour.

**E-service delivery**. The value to Canadian organizations in having this network is the ability to provide online services to individuals or other organizations that can effectively identify themselves.  The global pandemic has shown that in-person transactions are not always available as an option.  SSI provides low cost, low-to-no integration remote transactions.  It will serve remote citizens, people with mobility issues and offer services in many languages.  By putting the citizen in charge of their identity and credentials, the citizens can be empowered to collect the requisite credentials to complete their own transactions without having to send them on multiple trips to multiple government offices to complete a transaction.  The same abilities will be available to the private sector, reducing transaction costs and opening up new business opportunities to employ Canadians and to export technology and expertise.