## Purpose

This is a short, clear statement of the purpose of the GF. It:

1. SHOULD be as short and concise as possible—ideally one sentence, or only a few sentences.

Abstract from the CRA document "Determination of whether an entity is a "non-profit organization"
> This public purpose may include:  social welfare, civic improvement, pleasure, recreation, relief of poverty, advancement of education or religion or other similar purpose. In general terms, social welfare means that which provides assistance for disadvantaged groups or for the common good and general welfare of the people of the community. Civic improvement includes the enhancement in value or quality of community or civic life. An example would be an association that works for the advancement of a community by encouraging the establishment of new industries, parks, museums, etc. Pleasure or recreation means that which provides a state of gratification or a means of refreshment or diversion. Examples include social clubs, golf clubs, curling clubs, badminton clubs and so on that are organized and operated Footnote 4 to provide recreational facilities for the enjoyment of members and their families.
> 
> An entity may be considered to be organized solely for non-profit purposes if its aims and activities are directed toward the general improvement of conditions within one or more areas of business. An example of this would be where an entity was organized to advance the educational standards within a particular industry or profession, to publicize, improve and promote the entity's objectives in a general way and to encourage the exchange of relevant technical information. If the activities of such an entity were consistent with these aims, then it would qualify as a non-profit organization provided that all other conditions with respect to non-profit organizations as defined in subsection 123(1) were complied with. However, the entity will probably not qualify as a non-profit organization if it is primarily involved, for example, in an activity that is directly connected with the sales of members' goods or services and for such services receives a fee or commission computed in relation to sales promoted. Such an entity is normally considered to be an extension of the members' sales organizations and will be considered to be carrying on a normal commercial operation. If the fees and commissions charged are well beyond the needs of the entity and these earnings are accumulated and invested as described below by the entity, this would be another reason why the entity would not qualify as a non-profit organization.
> 
> In some cases an entity may be organized under legislation for corporations without share capital. Corporations without share capital are generally regarded as non-profit corporations. Such corporations may be incorporated federally under Part II of the Canada Corporations Act ("CCA"), or provincially under the relevant provincial statute such as Part III of the Ontario Corporations Act ("OCA") or the British Columbia Society Act. Legislation for corporations without share capital usually provides that the corporations are to be carried on without the purpose of gain for their members and any profit to such a corporation is to be used in promoting its objects.Footnote 5  The Department may use the information that an entity is organized under the applicable provisions of such legislation as evidence to establish that it was organized for non-profit purposes.
> 
> On the other hand, an entity may be organized under legislation for corporations with share capital. Such legislation includes, for example, the Canada Business Corporations Act ("CBCA") and the Ontario Business Corporations Act ("OBCA"). If a corporation is organized under such legislation, without any statement in the governing documents that it is organized for non-profit purposes, this may be conclusive evidence that it was organized for profit purposes.
